Motivation: Biofuel cells (BFCs) based on enzymes and microbes are the promising future alternative sources of sustainable electrical energy under mild conditions (i.e. ambient temperature and neutral pH). By combining the adaptive behavior of BFCs self-regulating energy release with the versatility of biocomputing, we construct a novel gas-controlled biocomputing security system, which could be used as the potential implantable self-powered and 'smart' medical system with the logic diagnosis aim. Results: We have demonstrated a biocomputing security system based on BFCs. Due to the unique 'RESET' reagent of N 2 applied in this work, the prepared biocomputing security system can be reset and cycled for a large number of times with no 'RESET' reagent-based 'waste'. This would be advantageous for the potential practical applications of such keypad lock as well as the development of biocomputing security devices. In order to validate the universality of the system and also to harvest energy directly from biofuels with enhanced power output, we replace the glucose with orange juice as the biofuel to operate BFCs-based biocomputing system, which also possesses the function of keypad lock. In addition, by introducing BFCs into the biocomputing security system, the adaptive behavior of the BFCs self-regulating the power release would be an immense advantage of such security keypad lock devices in potential self-powered implantable medical systems. The designed sequence gives the maximum power output and discriminate itself from the rest of the sequences. From this, we find that maximizing the dimensionless ratio of gap versus SD of the power output spectrum (a funnel in power outputs) gives the quantitative optimal design criterion. Therefore, our construction here may also provide a practical example and microscopic structural basis for mimicking the real biological network systems and bridge the gaps between the theoretical concepts and experiments important for biomolecular systems and synthetic biology. Contact: