Motivation: Identifying microRNAs associated with diseases (disease miRNAs) is helpful for exploring the pathogenesis of diseases. Because miRNAs fulfill function via the regulation of their target genes and because the current number of experimentally validated targets is insufficient, some existing methods have inferred potential disease miRNAs based on the predicted targets. It is difficult for these methods to achieve excellent performance due to the high false-positive and false-negative rates for the target prediction results. Alternatively, several methods have constructed a network composed of miRNAs based on their associated diseases and have exploited the information within the network to predict the disease miRNAs. However, these methods have failed to take into account the prior information regarding the network nodes and the respective local topological structures of the different categories of nodes. Therefore, it is essential to develop a method that exploits the more useful information to predict reliable disease miRNA candidates. Results: miRNAs with similar functions are normally associated with similar diseases and vice versa. Therefore, the functional similarity between a pair of miRNAs is calculated based on their associated diseases to construct a miRNA network. We present a new prediction method based on random walk on the network. For the diseases with some known related miRNAs, the network nodes are divided into labeled nodes and unlabeled nodes, and the transition matrices are established for the two categories of nodes. Furthermore, different categories of nodes have different transition weights. In this way, the prior information of nodes can be completely exploited. Simultaneously, the various ranges of topologies around the different categories of nodes are integrated. In addition, how far the walker can go away from the labeled nodes is controlled by restarting the walking. This is helpful for relieving the negative effect of noisy data. For the diseases without any known related miRNAs, we extend the walking on a miRNA-disease bilayer network. During the prediction process, the similarity between diseases, the similarity between miRNAs, the known miRNA-disease associations and the topology information of the bilayer network are exploited. Moreover, the importance of information from different layers of network is considered. Our method achieves superior performance for 18 human diseases with AUC values ranging from 0.786 to 0.945. Moreover, case studies on breast neoplasms, lung neoplasms, prostatic neo-plasms and 32 diseases further confirm the ability of our method to discover potential disease miRNAs.