Motivation: Given the growth of large-scale protein–protein interaction (PPI) networks obtained across multiple species and conditions , network alignment is now an important research problem. Network alignment performs comparative analysis across multiple PPI networks to understand their connections and relationships. However, PPI data in high-throughput experiments still suffer from significant false-positive and false-negatives rates. Consequently, high-confidence network alignment across entire PPI networks is not possible. At best, local network alignment attempts to alleviate this problem by completely ignoring low-confidence mappings; global network alignment, on the other hand, pairs all proteins regardless. To this end, we propose an alternative strategy: instead of full alignment across the entire network or completely ignoring low-confidence regions, we aim to perform highly specific protein-to-protein alignments where data confidence is high, and fall back on broader functional region-to-region alignment where detailed pro-tein–protein alignment cannot be ascertained. The basic idea is to provide an alignment of multiple granularities to allow biological predictions at varying specificity. Results: DualAligner performs dual network alignment, in which both region-to-region alignment, where whole subgraph of one network is aligned to subgraph of another, and protein-to-protein alignment , where individual proteins in networks are aligned to one another, are performed to achieve higher accuracy network alignments. Dual network alignment is achieved in DualAligner via background information provided by a combination of Gene Ontology annotation information and protein interaction network data. We tested DualAligner on the global networks from IntAct and demonstrated the superiority of our approach compared with state-of-the-art network alignment methods. We studied the effects of parameters in DualAligner in controlling the quality of the alignment. We also performed a case study that illustrates the utility of our approach. Availability and implementation: