Motivation: Translating findings in rodent models to human models has been a cornerstone of modern biology and drug development. However, in many cases, a naive 'extrapolation' between the two species has not succeeded. As a result, clinical trials of new drugs sometimes fail even after considerable success in the mouse or rat stage of development. In addition to in vitro studies, inter-species translation requires analytical tools that can predict the enriched gene sets in human cells under various stimuli from corresponding measurements in animals. Such tools can improve our understanding of the underlying biology and optimize the allocation of resources for drug development. Results: We developed an algorithm to predict differential gene set enrichment as part of the sbv IMPROVER (systems biology verification in Industrial Methodology for Process Verification in Research) Species Translation Challenge, which focused on phosphoproteomic and transcriptomic measurements of normal human bronchial epithe-lial (NHBE) primary cells under various stimuli and corresponding measurements in rat (NRBE) primary cells. We find that gene sets exhibit a higher inter-species correlation compared with individual genes, and are potentially more suited for direct prediction. Furthermore, in contrast to a similar cross-species response in protein phosphorylation states 5 and 25 min after exposure to stimuli, gene set enrichment 6 h after exposure is significantly different in NHBE cells compared with NRBE cells. In spite of this difference, we were able to develop a robust algorithm to predict gene set activation in NHBE with high accuracy using simple analytical methods. Availability and implementation: Implementation of all algorithms is available as source code (in Matlab) at http://bhanot.biomaps.rutgers. edu/wiki/codes_SC3_Predicting_GeneSets.zip, along with the relevant data used in the analysis. Gene sets, gene expression and protein phosphorylation data are available on request.